0.How many different colors does each format support? 

BMP supports over 4 billion colors. GIF supports 256 colors (8 bit GIF).
JPEG supports 16 million colors (24 bit JPEG). PNG supports 16 million colors (24 bit PNG). 


1.Which of these formats supports animation?  

GIF supports animation.


2.What’s the difference between lossy and lossless compression? 

Lossy compression permantly removes data from the file that is being compressed to reduce file size, typically data that 
will not be 'missed' or noticed by the user. This makes the file size smaller, but note that you cannot recover the full 
file (the removed data) from the compressed lossy file. Lossless compression on the other hand retains all the file data 
during compression, meaning that the user can compress file but then restore the file to its original/complete state and 
full size. 


3.Which of these formats is lossy-compressed? 

JPEGs are an example of a lossy file format (which is why they are typically not print quality).


4.What happens, technically speaking, when a file is deleted on a FAT file system? 

FAT stands for File Allocation Table, and when a file is deleted from the computer it can more accuratly be described as 
'forgoten'. The file is not actually deleted but the file address is removed from the computers memory and the address 
where the file was is marked as available memory and new files can be writen over all or part of the old file. Technically, 
this means we have a window of time to recover the deleted file by trying to trace its address. 


5.What can someone like you do to ensure (with high probability) that files you delete cannot be recovered? 

We can use Secure Deletion to ensure files cannot be recovered. This is the pracice of overwriting the file location on the 
harddrive with all 0s, so even if someone was able to recover the address of the file, they would not be able to recover the file.


6.What’s stdint.h? 

stdint.h is a C header file that uses typedef to define exact width integers. Amongst other things this allows programmers 
to write more portable code.     


7.What’s the point of using uint8_t, uint32_t, int32_t, and uint16_t in a program? 

Using uint indicates to the program that you want an integer of specific size/width, for example, uint8_t is an integer of 
width (size) 8 bytes. In relations to BMP, this indicates the size of the pizel we desire.


8.How many bytes is a BYTE, a DWORD, a LONG, and a WORD, respectively? (Assume a 32-bit architecture like the CS50 Appliance.) 

BYTE is 1 bytes. DWORD is 4 bytes. LONG is 4 bytes. WORD is 2 bytes.


9.What (in ASCII, decimal, or hexadecimal) must the first two bytes of any BMP file be? (Leading bytes used to identify 

file formats (with high probability) are generally called "magic numbers.)" We use the first 2 bytes of a BMP file to 
identify the BMP file type. We allocate 1 byte for 'B' and 1 byte for 'M' (in ASCII encoding). This is Ox4D42 in hexadecimal.


10.What’s the difference between bfSize and biSize? 

bfSize is the size (bytes) of the entire bitmap file. biSize is the size (bytes) of the BITMAPINFO structure.


11.What does it mean if biHeight is negative?

If biHeight is negative the 'start' or origin of the BMP is in the top left corner (as opposed to a positive biHeight 
which starts in the botton left).


12.What field in BITMAPINFOHEADER specifies the BMP’s color depth (i.e., bits per pixel)?

biBitCount in the BITMAPINFOHEADER is what specifies the BMPs color depth.


13.Why might fopen return NULL in copy.c:37?

My guess is that fopen may return NULL because we cannot open file due to possibly that we are out of memory, or there is 
a problem with the file path.


14.Why is the third argument to fread always 1 in our code?

Because we are only reading 1 element.


15.What value does copy.c:70 assign padding if bi.biWidth is 3?

3


16.What does fseek do?

fseek moves the position indicator from current position to a new position under a set of certain instructions, which in 
our example is to scan over the padding to seek the next pixel.  


17.What is SEEK_CUR?

A constant that allows us to set an offset relative to the current position of the cursor eg offset of 5 will move reading point 5 to the right of cursor. 


18.Whodunit?

Milo Banana dun it.
